# Codebook for data generated by run_analysis.R

## Study design

run_analysis.R loads the Human Activity Recognition data, merges the training and test data sets, retains mean and standard deviation for the 43 measurements provided,
and labels variables and factor levels in clearer forms. Also, it produces a dataset that average the observations over each test subject and activity.

The script looks for the files and directories where it's located so handiest way to run it is to save it to the location where you have unzipped the HAR data zip files.

For more information about the measurements, go to the study webpage:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

## Code book

subject.number
	Identifies the 30 test subjects.

activity
	Identifies the six different activities, walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, and laying.

There are 86 variables describing 43 measurements of triaxial acceleration, estimated body acceleration, and angular velocity. 
For each measurement, mean and standard deviation is provided. 
The variable names are coded as follows:
name.statistic.dimension,
where name is one of the measurements from the list below, statistic is either mean or standard deviation, and dimension is one of X, Y and Z, for those measurement taken in three dimensions.


The 43 measurements are 
tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag
